README.md, before:

# what is nsapass?
nsapass  is the simplest, most secure, passwords manager that i know of,
for these reasons:

- **minimum segfaults and funny bugs:**  written _entirely_ in python.  you
  can be pretty sure that undefined behaviour due to improper memory access
  is _pretty_ minimum.  in a sense nsapass takes advantage of the _many_
  highly skilled python monkeys to ensure that this app does not have funny
  memory bugs.

  sensitive parts concerning encryption, decryption or access to clipboard,
  is entirely offloaded into other external apps of your choice in the
  _true_ spirit of the UNIX philosophy!  by default, the configuration
  makes a _great_ choice by using `ciphart` for encryption and decryption.
  `ciphart` is _super_ hard to bruteforce and other attacks!

- **super _ultra_ easy to audit:**  written in a _single_ python script
  made of _only_ about `<800` lines of code!  no separate config file, so
  those approx `<800` lines of code include the configs!  the configs are
  done in a _sucklessy_ kind of approach where you edit some variables in
  the `nsa` file itself.

  the passwords database itself is a simple json text file!  of course,
  this entire json file is encrypted, but thanks to the _extreme_
  simplicity of this, you may decrypt it manually to see by _yourself_ how
  simple and awesome and _occam-razory_ this is!

- **common sense:** your passwords database never touches the disk in plain
  text form (except with hibernating or swapping.  for these you may need
  to mount them on encrypted device mappers for now).  i know this is
  common sense, but i just listed it in case it helps lowering your resting
  heart beat rate, so that hopefully your heart attack is postponed.  in a
  sense nsapass also helps in prolonging your lifespan.

  also your _password_, which you use to decrypt the passwords database,
  never goes into nsapass.  you just talk to the external
  encryption/decryption app of your choice which you use (by default
  `ciphart`).

plus, extra goodies:

- **super fast usage!**  thanks to the _advanced tag-based hierarchical
  search_, you can retrieve entries _ridiculously_ fast.  so fast a sloth
  using nsapass would appear faster than a fox using keepass!  e.g. say
  you'd like to retrieve an entry with the tags `caveman protonmail` and it
  is the only entry in the database starting with `c`, then you can just
  refer to it by `c`!  let's face it, the bottleneck with password
  managers, in reality, is the user interface.  this is why nsapass is
  super fast, because it solves the real problem.
- **flexible:**  yup.  just look at the configs part of `nsa` file.
- **looks pretty:**  look at the beautiful colors!

# alternatives to nsapass
i didn't use much alternatives, but recently i've been using `keepassxc`.
it sucks, because, look at their github page.  loads of C++, CMake, C,
Shell, Objective-C++, etc. extreme complexity!

<p align="center">
    <img src="pics/comparision.png">
</p>

how can _you_ know that funny memory bugs don't exist in `keepassxc`!?
would _you_ put _faith_ in keepassxc's devs that their app is free of
segfaults?  _no way!_ no thanks sir! _keep_ your keepass to yourself.
i'm going to rather rely on the _many_ highly skilled monkeys at _python_
by coding an alternative in `<800` lines of python code (inc. configs).

to be more exact, i used to use the command `keepassxc-cli` to load
passwords into my clipboard, then paste them manually in password fields as
i want.  i just never liked having fancy browser-integration where
username-password fields get populated automatically by mere press of some
shortcut key.  imo totally not worth the extra complexity.  our passwords
are very _dear_ to us, and the web is like a big toilet full of disease.
just imagine how horrible browsers are?  imagine the javascript?  imagine
the html5?  layers of horror upon horror.  so yeah, browser integration?
nothx!

so, yeah, i just used `keepassxc-cli`, and then kept suffering until i
decided to finally write `<800` lines of python (i.e. nsapass) to end this
misery and it ended.  and now it's _your_ time, do _you_ want to end your
misery too?  it's easy!  just `git clone` this enjoy the taste of liberty!

# how to use?

## installation
just execute `nsa`.  to make it convenient, perhaps copy it somewhere in
`PATH`.  that's all.

no fancy shmancy enterprise-grade frameworky end-to-endy corporaty
nonsense.  just straight _"want it?  use it!"_.

## config
permanent configs are stored in `nsa` file itself; just edit it.  for
run-time configs run `nsa -h` and follow along.  you can get further help
from the subcommands by, say, `nsa cp -h`.

## general guidelines

1. you're highly encouraged to take advantage of the easy audit-ability of
   nsapass by reading it yourself.  
2. then, after reading it, you create your own fork of the thing that
   you've reviewed and hopefully use it forever.
3. if at any point you wish to update your version to take advantage of new
   changes in upstream, you should go back to step (1) again.  but, again,
   since nsapass is small, written in an easy language (python), such
   audit is simple.

this auditing is really worth it.  would you blindly trust the developers
of your passwords manager?  fortunately you don't have to with nsapass,
so don't blindly trust when you can verify.

to speed up your auditing, you may start reading nsapass from near the
end where it says `# part where stuff start happening`.  from there, you
will see the functions that it uses, and which values are passed to them,
and move forward.

all the nsapass commands keep reusing of the same basic functions over
and over.  so, once you review the functionality of a single nsapass
command, such as, say, `nsa cp`, you will not see much new functions
for the other commands.

# mini tutorial
let's create our first entry, and hence our 1st nsapass passwords database.
this `nsa add caveman protonmail -u caveman@protonmail.com -m -n 'this is a
note!'` will add a manual password entry (hence `-m`) for the tags `caveman
protonmail`.  the other entries (e.g. username `caveman@protonmail.com` and
note `this is a note!` are optional, but can make things handy).  we then
get this _neat_ prompt:
<p align="center"><img src="pics/mini_tutorial_1.png"></p>

now, let's add another password entry with search tags `caveman gmail`, and
a much bigger note to show you how neatly nsapass wraps long notes based on
terminal width.  plus, we will use a super-secure automatically generated
password (by using `-g 30 printable`).  we will also choose to display this
password by specifying the `-z` flag (which causes `nsa` to display the
password):
<p align="center"><img src="pics/mini_tutorial_2.png"></p>

super mega _ultra_ neat, isn't it?  if this isn't neat for you, then i
don't know what is.  do you see how _beautiful_ the colors are?  does not
it mesmerize the heart and the mind?

anyway, let's now ask nsa pass to list for us all passwords that their
search tags start with letter `c`.  we do this by `nsa ls c`.  can't get
easier.  and then we get this _beautiful_ output:
<p align="center"><img src="pics/mini_tutorial_3.png"></p>

last but certainly not least, let's copy an entry into our clipboard for
use, and at the same time, show you how _convenient_ the tags-based search
feature is.  let's load the entry associated with `caveman gmail`, shall
we?  well, we only need to type minimally to uniquely identify it.  so, we
just need to call it `c g`!  i.e. the entry with its 1st tag starting by
`c` and its 2nd starting by `g`.  the command is only `nsa cp c g`!  even a
sloth can feel like a fox.  here is the _gorgeous_ output:
<p align="center"><img src="pics/mini_tutorial_4.png"></p>

btw, did you know that you may execute `nsa 2` in a separate
process, in order to send `SIGINT` signal to all `nsa cp` or `nsa cat`
processes?  this is _very_ powerful and handy, because it allows you to
configure shortcuts in your window management system to execute `nsa 2` in
order to talk to other `nsa (cp|cat)` processes so that it moves on
immediately to to copy the password, or to immediately delete the previous
copies from the clipboard, all without needing to manually re-visit the
terminal where `nsa (cp|cat)` is running to manually type `ctrl^c`.  very
neat!  for example, in `i3`'s configs, i have added this key binding
```
bindsym $mod+i exec nsa 2
```
which makes my life _super_-mega-ultra easy.  basically, i run, say, `nsa
cp c g` in a terminal, which puts my username (e.g. an email address) into
my clipboard.  i then move to my browser and paste my cipboard's content
into the username field.  finally, i just press `$mod+i` to signal to the
`nsa cp c g` process _"psst! username is done, gimme the password now!"_.
then i _immediately_ get the password and paste in the password field in my
browser.  all without needing to jump around terminals!  no _need_ for
browser integration when it is _this_ simple!  neat, isn't it?
<p align="center"><img src="pics/mini_tutorial_5.png"></p>

this is just the _beginning_.  i've made much more commands for you, _all_
by myself<sup>*</sup>!
<p align="center"><img src="pics/morecommands.png"></p>

# dependencies

- python.
- any encryption/decryption app (by default
  [`ciphart`](https://github.com/Al-Caveman/ciphart)).
- any clipboard management app (by default
  [`xclip`](https://github.com/astrand/xclip)).

# message from founder
despite _all_ my engineering excellence and finesse, i'm still a maximally
humble and a down-to-earth guy.  so, if you like some features, i'd like to
see your patch.  if they it is sensible i'll merge it.  if i like your
idea, i may even implemented it _myself_, by my very own hands, for _free_
and _git commit-pull-merge-push_ it or me _and_ for you!  because i also
care about _you_ and i want _you_ to be happy as well.

----

<sup>* and [int-e](https://github.com/int-e)</sup>

Commit message:

security and usability improvements
- usernames and passwords are no longer coppied by clipboard, and no longer
  needed to be pasted manually later on.  instead, they are typed
  automatically by nsapass.  this implies removal of `xclip` as a default
  dependency in favour of `xdotool`.  this enhances the overall security
  as less sensitive data will be living in clipboard buffers.
- introduced commands `nsa u` and `nsa p` for typing the retrieved
  username and password, respectively.  this enhances the usability as we
  no longer need to type `nsa 2` to copy the next entry, and then type
  `ctrl^v` to paste.
- command `nsa 2` is renamed into `nsa stop`.  because who cares what the
  signal number is, right?  all what matters is that it stops nsapass's
  process.
- command `nsa cp` is renamed into `nsa get`.  because it no longer copies
  anything.  it only gets the requested entry.  there is no more copying
  but rather typing (done by other commands via inter-process communication
  using `nsa u` and `nsa `p`.
- major version bump since the interface changes break backwards
  compatibility with previous versions' interfaces.
- updated README.md (mini-tutorial needs to get further updates).

README.md, after:

# what is nsapass?
nsapass  is the simplest, most secure, passwords manager that i know of,
for these reasons:

- **minimum segfaults and funny bugs:**  written _entirely_ in python.  you
  can be pretty sure that undefined behaviour due to improper memory access
  is _pretty_ minimum.  in a sense nsapass takes advantage of the _many_
  highly skilled python monkeys to ensure that this app does not have funny
  memory bugs.

  sensitive parts concerning encryption, decryption or access to clipboard,
  is entirely offloaded into other external apps of your choice in the
  _true_ spirit of the UNIX philosophy!  by default, the configuration
  makes a _great_ choice by using `ciphart` for encryption and decryption.
  `ciphart` is _super_ hard to bruteforce and other attacks!

- **super _ultra_ easy to audit:**  written in a _single_ python script
  made of _only_ about `<800` lines of code!  no separate config files, so
  those approx `<800` lines of code include the configs!  the configs are
  done in a _sucklessy_ kind of approach where you edit some variables in
  the `nsa` file itself.

  the passwords database itself is a simple json text file!  of course,
  this entire json file is encrypted, but thanks to the _extreme_
  simplicity of this, you may decrypt it manually to see by _yourself_ how
  simple and awesome and _occam-razory_ this is!

- **common sense:** your passwords database never touches the disk in plain
  text form (except with hibernating or swapping.  for these you may need
  to mount them on encrypted device mappers for now).  i know this is
  common sense, but i just listed it in case it helps lowering your resting
  heart beat rate, so that hopefully your heart attack is postponed.  in a
  sense nsapass also helps in prolonging your lifespan.

  also your _password_, which you use to decrypt the passwords database,
  never goes into nsapass.  you just talk to the external
  encryption/decryption app of your choice which you use (by default
  `ciphart`).

plus, extra goodies:

- **super fast usage!**  thanks to the _advanced tag-based hierarchical
  search_, you can retrieve entries _ridiculously_ fast.  so fast a sloth
  using nsapass would appear faster than a fox using keepass!  e.g. say
  you'd like to retrieve an entry with the tags `caveman protonmail` and it
  is the only entry in the database starting with `c`, then you can just
  refer to it by `c`!  let's face it, the bottleneck with password
  managers, in reality, is the user interface.  this is why nsapass is
  super fast, because it solves the real problem.
- **flexible:**  yup.  just look at the configs part of `nsa` file.
- **looks pretty:**  look at the beautiful colors!

# alternatives to nsapass
i didn't use much alternatives, but recently i've been using `keepassxc`.
it sucks, because, look at their github page.  loads of C++, CMake, C,
Shell, Objective-C++, etc. extreme complexity!

<p align="center">
    <img src="pics/comparision.png">
</p>

how can _you_ know that funny memory bugs don't exist in `keepassxc`!?
would _you_ put _faith_ in keepassxc's devs that their app is free of
segfaults?  _no way!_ no thanks sir! _keep_ your keepass to yourself.
i'm going to rather rely on the _many_ highly skilled monkeys at _python_
by coding an alternative in `<800` lines of python code (inc. configs).

to be more exact, i used to use the command `keepassxc-cli` to load
passwords into my clipboard, then paste them manually in password fields as
i want.  i just never liked having fancy browser-integration where
username-password fields get populated automatically by mere press of some
shortcut key.  imo totally not worth the extra complexity.  our passwords
are very _dear_ to us, and the web is like a big toilet full of disease.
just imagine how horrible browsers are?  imagine the javascript?  imagine
the html5?  layers of horror upon horror.  so yeah, browser integration?
nothx!

so, yeah, i just used `keepassxc-cli`, and then kept suffering until i
decided to finally write `<800` lines of python (i.e. nsapass) to end this
misery and it ended.  and now it's _your_ time, do _you_ want to end your
misery too?  it's easy!  just `git clone` this enjoy the taste of liberty!

# how to use?

## installation
just execute `nsa`.  to make it convenient, perhaps copy it somewhere in
`PATH`.  that's all.

no fancy shmancy enterprise-grade frameworky end-to-endy corporaty
nonsense.  just straight _"want it?  use it!"_.

## config
permanent configs are stored in `nsa` file itself; just edit it.  for
run-time configs run `nsa -h` and follow along.  you can get further help
from the subcommands by, say, `nsa cp -h`.

## general guidelines

1. you're highly encouraged to take advantage of the easy audit-ability of
   nsapass by reading it yourself.  
2. then, after reading it, you create your own fork of the thing that
   you've reviewed and hopefully use it forever.
3. if at any point you wish to update your version to take advantage of new
   changes in upstream, you should go back to step (1) again.  but, again,
   since nsapass is small, written in an easy language (python), such
   audit is simple.

this auditing is really worth it.  would you blindly trust the developers
of your passwords manager?  fortunately you don't have to with nsapass,
so don't blindly trust when you can verify.

to speed up your auditing, you may start reading nsapass from near the
end where it says `# part where stuff start happening`.  from there, you
will see the functions that it uses, and which values are passed to them,
and move forward.

all the nsapass commands keep reusing of the same basic functions over
and over.  so, once you review the functionality of a single nsapass
command, such as, say, `nsa cp`, you will not see much new functions
for the other commands.

# mini tutorial (needs updating)
**note:** _this tutorial still works for nsapass v4+, except for the fact
that the command `nsa 2` no longer exists, and pasting is no longer used.
instead consult `nsa -h` for commands `nsa tu`, `nsa tp` and `nsa stop`.
also screenshots are outdated._

let's create our first entry, and hence our 1st nsapass passwords database.
this `nsa add caveman protonmail -u caveman@protonmail.com -m -n 'this is a
note!'` will add a manual password entry (hence `-m`) for the tags `caveman
protonmail`.  the other entries (e.g. username `caveman@protonmail.com` and
note `this is a note!` are optional, but can make things handy).  we then
get this _neat_ prompt:
<p align="center"><img src="pics/mini_tutorial_1.png"></p>

now, let's add another password entry with search tags `caveman gmail`, and
a much bigger note to show you how neatly nsapass wraps long notes based on
terminal width.  plus, we will use a super-secure automatically generated
password (by using `-g 30 printable`).  we will also choose to display this
password by specifying the `-z` flag (which causes `nsa` to display the
password):
<p align="center"><img src="pics/mini_tutorial_2.png"></p>

super mega _ultra_ neat, isn't it?  if this isn't neat for you, then i
don't know what is.  do you see how _beautiful_ the colors are?  does not
it mesmerize the heart and the mind?

anyway, let's now ask nsa pass to list for us all passwords that their
search tags start with letter `c`.  we do this by `nsa ls c`.  can't get
easier.  and then we get this _beautiful_ output:
<p align="center"><img src="pics/mini_tutorial_3.png"></p>

last but certainly not least, let's copy an entry into our clipboard for
use, and at the same time, show you how _convenient_ the tags-based search
feature is.  let's load the entry associated with `caveman gmail`, shall
we?  well, we only need to type minimally to uniquely identify it.  so, we
just need to call it `c g`!  i.e. the entry with its 1st tag starting by
`c` and its 2nd starting by `g`.  the command is only `nsa cp c g`!  even a
sloth can feel like a fox.  here is the _gorgeous_ output:
<p align="center"><img src="pics/mini_tutorial_4.png"></p>

btw, did you know that you may execute `nsa 2` in a separate
process, in order to send `SIGINT` signal to all `nsa cp` or `nsa cat`
processes?  this is _very_ powerful and handy, because it allows you to
configure shortcuts in your window management system to execute `nsa 2` in
order to talk to other `nsa (cp|cat)` processes so that it moves on
immediately to to copy the password, or to immediately delete the previous
copies from the clipboard, all without needing to manually re-visit the
terminal where `nsa (cp|cat)` is running to manually type `ctrl^c`.  very
neat!  for example, in `i3`'s configs, i have added this key binding
```
bindsym $mod+i exec nsa 2
```
which makes my life _super_-mega-ultra easy.  basically, i run, say, `nsa
cp c g` in a terminal, which puts my username (e.g. an email address) into
my clipboard.  i then move to my browser and paste my cipboard's content
into the username field.  finally, i just press `$mod+i` to signal to the
`nsa cp c g` process _"psst! username is done, gimme the password now!"_.
then i _immediately_ get the password and paste in the password field in my
browser.  all without needing to jump around terminals!  no _need_ for
browser integration when it is _this_ simple!  neat, isn't it?
<p align="center"><img src="pics/mini_tutorial_5.png"></p>

this is just the _beginning_.  i've made much more commands for you, _all_
by myself<sup>*</sup>!
<p align="center"><img src="pics/morecommands.png"></p>

# dependencies

- python.
- any encryption/decryption app that can read passwords and plaintext input
  as STDIN, and write ciphertext output as STDOUT.  default is
  [`ciphart`](https://github.com/Al-Caveman/ciphart)).
- any keyboard typing app that takes value-to-type as STDIN, and then types
  the value as if typed by keyboard.  default is
  [`xdotool`](http://www.semicomplete.com/projects/xdotool)).

# message from founder
despite _all_ my engineering excellence and finesse, i'm still a maximally
humble and a down-to-earth guy.  so, if you like some features, i'd like to
see your patch.  if they it is sensible i'll merge it.  if i like your
idea, i may even implemented it _myself_, by my very own hands, for _free_
and _git commit-pull-merge-push_ it or me _and_ for you!  because i also
care about _you_ and i want _you_ to be happy as well.

----

<sup>* and [int-e](https://github.com/int-e)</sup>
